Personal Statement


Throughout my degree and the start of my professional life, I have enjoyed solving quantitative problems with computers. My knowledge of computing to date has been self-taught as projects have required it, and I love finding the answers to questions under my own steam. A formal education in computing is the obvious next step for me as I embark on a career which I am passionate about. The course at KCL is perfect; I particularly like the inclusion of practical modules like “Algorithmic Issues in the World Wide Web” which could be directly useful in my immediate career.

Despite there being surprisingly little computing involved in my undergraduate (biology) degree, when the time came to choose an assessment project, I decided to set myself a challenge and apply for a mathematical modelling assignment. I modelled the evolution of altruism under changing dispersal conditions. This involved learning both the requisite maths and the Mathematica syntax necessary alongside doing the actual work. Despite, or perhaps because of, having to puzzle through a lot of the material independently, I found the process the most enjoyable period of my entire degree. Solving problems with both Mathematica and the maths as they came up was frustrating but all the more rewarding for it, and I was amazed by how much I enjoyed the computational aspect of the project.

When I was seconded to PwC (a large accountancy firm) as a data analyst from my first job, I once again found my stride working on large analytical projects. I volunteered to complete a project which would map all the companies in a given sector in the UK, and then model how likely it was that they would be acquired within the next 3 years. For this I used R, and found myself again enjoying solving the problems I faced, and coming up with a useful, real-world solution to a particularly large (and in this case potentially expensive!) problem. I taught myself VBA while I was there, and have used it to automate processes which had previously taken hours of time each week manually. 

At the same time, I took a job as a development intern at an educational technology start-up. While a lot of my time is spent writing GCSE/A Level content, or using VBA to correct systematic punctuation/formatting errors in the excel question database, the other side of my job is being paid to learn PHP/MySQL/HTML/CSS to work under the in-house developer to maintain and add functionality to the website, which I enjoy more than anything else I've done to date. This job has further convinced me that a career in software development is for me.

Since leaving university, I have been ever more interested in computers, and recently assembled my first gaming PC. This allowed me to install Ubuntu on my laptop, and I have since discovered the joys of the command line. I've also looked at most major object-oriented programming languages, and have developed an understanding of data structures, control flow and general object-orientation. 

I want to take my professional and hobbyist interest to the next level, learn more about computing, and get my first real job in software development. The thing that draws me towards the KCL course most of all is the practical focus of many of the optional modules. As a biologist, the biological modules are very appealing to me. Explicitly understanding the complex problems which were glossed over during my undergraduate degree would be both satisfying and relevant to a fast-growing, exciting field which I am very interested in. What's more, the location allows me to continue to learn more about web development at my current job on a part-time basis, time allowing. Overall the suitability, structure and reputation of the course have motivated my application.
